Now storing that image in a variable is a nice first step but of course doesn't help us that much,
right?
So the first thing we can do though is of course we can call set state here, because we're in a stateful
widget and set our stored image,
so this property up there which is a file, equal to the image file we took from the camera.
This should at least allow us to see it here in our preview right,
because once stored image is set, we're trying to display that file here with the image widget which
has a file provider basically.
Let's give that a try
before we continue with saving the image on the device.
So if I save this and I go back to take a picture,
let's take a picture here with that emulator camera preview and indeed, here is my picture.
So that is looking good,
that is working but still, it's of course not that useful
if we can only manage our image here in a variable and in memory basically because that means that we're
not adding a place here, when we go back it's lost and when we restart the app, it's also lost and
that's of course not the idea,
instead we want to store that file somewhere permanently on our device hard drive so that we can
then work with this image whenever we restart the app and so on. Now to store it on our hard drive,
we need more packages that help us with that because interacting with the hard drive can be challenging,
to be precise
actually, it starts in a pretty straightforward way.
Maybe here after updating our preview image, you can use the image file which you got up there which
is a file and on that, you can call copy to copy this file in a new location,
so that's great.
Now we need to enter a path on our device where we want to copy this to
and this is the very tricky part because of course as you can imagine, on iOS and Android, you can't
write files to any place on the hard drive, instead
there are a lot of restrictions regarding where you can write data to, so that you don't clutter up the
hard drive of the mobile device or start writing files into folders where you really shouldn't have
access.
So therefore both iOS and Android typically give you a certain path where you can store your app
related data in
and that's a good thing because since such a path is clearly defined by both operating systems, that
means that whenever you delete your app, these operating systems can erase all the data from that
path and they know that all your app specific data is gone together with the app and that keeps your
device hard drive clean and avoids that you save files anywhere
and when you uninstall the app, these files are still there and therefore your hard drive would
reach its capacity at some point of time.
So it's good that you have clearly defined paths where you can store your data
but of course that also means that you need to find out which paths that are
and for that we can use a certain package which we can search for on pub.dev and it's path_provider.
Has nothing to do with the provider package,
instead this is a package which helps you get access to the paths iOS and Android give you to store data in.
So as always, let's go to the installing tab here and add this entry to the pubspec.yaml file below
our image picker here, like this
and before I hit save, I need yet another package and that's the path package, just path,
this helps us with constructing paths.
So one package helps us with finding paths,
this package helps us with combining paths basically and you'll see why we need this in a second.
So let's also install this, add this entry here to the pubspec.yaml file and now save this
and again if it doesn't work, run Flutter packages get.
So now with these two packages, back in the image input widget here, we can import them both, we can import
our package path and there, the path.dart file and maybe give this a path prefix so that we can use all
the methods it provides on the path thing here with path. and then the method name
and let's also import a package, the path provider package and there, the path_provider.dart file
and I'll give this a prefix of syspaths for system paths
but you don't need to assign these prefixes, I just do this so that it's really clear which functionality
is coming from which package.
So now down there where I want to copy this, we need to find out where we're allowed to copy it
to and therefore we first of all need to find our appDir, our app directory where we can store data and
we can do this with the help of the syspaths object here,
so in the end with the help of the path provider package and there
we can use the get application documents directory method. You see, you have a couple of methods there,
for example also for getting access to the external storage which only works on Android though, so not
really an option if you build an app that should work for iOS too.
This would give you access to an external SD card if available or the temporary directory
but as the name suggests, this is a temporary directory and it will regularly be cleaned up by your operating
system,
so don't store anything in there which should be living a bit longer, at least as long as your app.
The images we're taking right now with the camera for example also are stored in a temporary directory
and therefore they get deleted at some point of time.
So we need access to the applications documents directory, that's a directory on the device which is
reserved for app data
and that sounds just about right.
Now this here actually gives us a future which then yields the directory,
so I will await for this and therefore now, we'll have a handle to that directory stored in appDir.
So that's one thing but here for copy, we need a path which is actually just a string, not a directory
handle
but the good thing is that our appDir directory has a path property which gives us the path as a string.
But I don't want to copy my image like this,
instead you also have to provide the name of the image it should have
and for that, I'm fine with the name that was automatically assigned by the camera, by the image picker
and to get that, we can use path
and that's now using this prefix and therefore referring to the path package, path.base name which
gives you the part of a path after the last separator which is a complex name for saying the file
name.
So here, we can enter imageFile.path, that's the file,
that's the path to where our image file is currently stored,
so this temporary directory I just mentioned and there, the path does not just contain the folders where
it's stored in but also that includes the name of the file and with base name, we get that file name, including
the file extension. So I'll store this in that file name variable or constant here and therefore now, we can
copy this into this path and then also add the file name and therefore here, I'll enter a string and
then use string interpolation to get my appDir.path here and then a slash, to basically tell Flutter
or Dart that you want to navigate into this path
so to say, into the folder here and then I'll use more string interpolation and output my file name here.
So that means I basically copy the file into this path and I keep the file name,
that's what we're doing here. Now copy also is returning a future because this can take a while, not too
long of course but still you don't want to block your other code.
So here I will await for this because we're using async await to work with these futures and here,
I therefore have my saved image in the end and this is now the image as it's saved in its final destination.
Now it's this saved image which we then can work with in other parts of our application, for example
to store it
to an on device database so that we can combine it with a title and have a permanent entry on our device
but before we do that, let's make sure we work with this in memory first.